# Design of the Project

## Algorithms / Helper Methods

### Score Function

Based on background research on the courses, we determined that classes fit into the broad categories of theory, data science, artificial intelligence, robotics, security, and economics. Each class was given a "fit" rating from 0 to 10 (with 10 being a good fit) for each category. Additionally, each course was given a weight, where courses that are best taken earlier (such as 50, 51, and 121) are more heavily weighted. The answers to the survey questions based on interest are used to scale the category ratings. The sum of the categories multiplied by the weight yields the score of each class, which allows the classes to be ranked. This is then passed into the scheduling algorithm, described below.

Based on speed of querying, the information on ratings and weights is not loaded into a SQL database and instead is uploaded as a CSV titled courses.csv. (The same applies to the data displayed in "Course Requirements" page, which are listed in req.csv.)

### Scheduling Algorithm

Python: Once the user inputs all the necessary data, the program cycles through each semester and calculates the "minimal" courses, or courses whose prerequisites are already met, either because the course was already taken or because it is a prerequisite of a course that was already taken. Subsequently, minimal courses with the highest scores that are offered in the appropriate semester are put into the schedule.

## HTML/CSS

Most of our design elements came from Bootstrap. This includes like the Navbar, the font design, and the cards that make up the schedule. The font used in the logo is "Back to 1982", sourced from [1001 fonts](https://www.1001fonts.com/back-to-1982-font.html).

## Data

###  Source

David Malan provided us with basic course data from the my.harvard website, which included the list of all the courses in the Computer Science department with their corresponding course numbers, course titles, and course descriptions. To find the linking prerequisites between different courses, we referenced [The Unofficial Guide to Computer Science at Harvard](https://cdn.cs50.net/guide/guide-24-11x17.pdf). For a few other courses (especially graduate-level ones), we manually looked at the courses' descriptions at my.harvard to match them by prerequisites. We also found information about Harvard's Computer Science concentration requirements from their  [website](https://csadvising.seas.harvard.edu/concentration/requirements/). Afterwards, we wrote the set of prerequisite linkages in a csv file and imported the file into a SQL database, namely into the table named `prereqs`.

### SQL
In this project we created a SQL database with 5 tables:
1. `courses`: Stores basic data about courses. Contains title, id, and semeseter offered
2. `info`: Stores more data about courses. Contains the full descriptions of courses. The HTML of descriptions had to be cleaned before loading onto the website.
3. `prereqs`: Stores prerequisite linkages between courses; `start` is the id of a prerequsite for the id of the course under the column `end`.
4. `schedules`: Stores data about schedules generated by each user. The column `table_num` provides chronological order.
5. `users`: Stores information about each user, such as the username, the hashed password, saved schedules, etc.